Create Copilot instruction files for hosting and client integration README.md documentation (#12121)
microsoft/aspire: .github/instructions/hosting-readme.instructions.md

---
applyTo: "src/Aspire.Hosting*/README.md"
---

# README.md Instructions for Hosting Integration Packages

This document provides guidelines for writing and maintaining README.md files for Aspire hosting integration packages located under `src/Aspire.Hosting*/README.md`.

## Purpose

Hosting integration packages provide extension methods and resource definitions for the .NET Aspire AppHost. They enable developers to configure and orchestrate infrastructure resources (databases, message queues, caches, cloud services, etc.) in their distributed applications. The README.md files help developers understand how to add and configure these resources in their AppHost project.

## Standard Structure

All hosting integration README.md files should follow this structure:

### 1. Title and Description

```markdown
# Aspire.Hosting.{Technology} library

Provides extension methods and resource definitions for a .NET Aspire AppHost to configure {a/an} {Technology} {resource type}.
```

**Guidelines:**
- Title format: `# Aspire.Hosting.{Technology} library`
- Use "library" (not "package" or "component")

> - Start description with "Provides extension methods and resource definitions for a .NET Aspire AppHost to configure..."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Start description with "Provides extension methods and resource definitions for an Aspire AppHost to configure..."
```

- Be specific about what type of resource is being configured (e.g., "a SQL Server database resource", "a MongoDB resource", "Azure CosmosDB")

### 2. Getting Started Section

```markdown
## Getting started

### Prerequisites

{List any prerequisites such as Azure subscription, if applicable}

### Install the package

> In your AppHost project, install the .NET Aspire {Technology} Hosting library with [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your AppHost project, install the Aspire {Technology} Hosting library with [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org):
```

- Use the format: `https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspire/...`
- For multiple links, use a bulleted list with `*` prefix (hosting READMEs) or separate lines (simpler hosting READMEs)

### 6. Feedback & Contributing

```markdown
## Feedback & contributing

https://github.com/dotnet/aspire
```

**Guidelines:**
- Always include this section at the end
- Use exactly this format with no additional text

### 7. Trademark Notices (if applicable)

For technologies with trademark requirements (e.g., Redis, PostgreSQL):

```markdown
_{Trademark notice text}_
```

**Guidelines:**
- Place trademark notices at the very end after "Feedback & contributing"
- Use markdown italic formatting.
- The trademark itself should be bolded using asterisks
- Common examples:
  - Redis: `_*Redis* is a registered trademark of Redis Ltd. Any rights therein are reserved to *Redis Ltd*._`
  - PostgreSQL: `_*Postgres*, *PostgreSQL* and the *Slonik Logo* are trademarks or registered trademarks of the *PostgreSQL Community Association of Canada*, and used with their permission._`

## Complete Example

Here's a complete example for a hosting integration:

```markdown
# Aspire.Hosting.PostgreSQL library

> Provides extension methods and resource definitions for a .NET Aspire AppHost to configure a PostgreSQL resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provides extension methods and resource definitions for an Aspire AppHost to configure a PostgreSQL resource.
```
